Now you know what risk is and what risk assessments are.
Now what do you assess?
You can literally assess anything in the organization.
You can assess existing systems, new systems,
processes, procedures, really anything you want to look at.
What's important is that you understand
the scope of what you plan to assess and then clearly define it.
Let's say, for instance, you choose to assess the HR department.
What are you really going to look at?
Is it the whole department?
There's a lot to look at here.
Now, what if you chose instead to assess just the employee onboarding process.
It's a much smaller scope,
but we don't know if that meets your needs.
There are a few ways that I think you can start to think about scope.
First, you really need to decide what you want to assess.
You may already have a target in mind.
Maybe it's a new system,
but you may just want to start assessing areas of
the business that you believe present some risk.
That's okay too. Next, I like to
understand all the components of the system or the process.
What does it connect to?
Where does the data go?
I try to make sure I have a diagram of the system and where
the data flow occurs before beginning any assessment.
Finally, I revise the scope if necessary and then really begin to plan
my assessment based on the scope and the components of the system or process.
Let's look at identifying appropriate risks.
This is probably the most challenging part of the cyber risk management profession.
You've already chosen your system, your scope.
How do you decide what risks to assess?
Now, earlier, we talked about how to create
risks statements and what risks statements actually are.
But how do you know which ones are appropriate for
that system or that scope that you've chosen?
What's generally a matter of experience,
but there are a few places that you can target.
One of those places is by looking at
existing compliance standards that have specific control objectives,
you can look at previous risk assessments
or prior audits that your organization has performed,
or you can utilize your knowledge of
cybersecurity to think about risks that are appropriate for your system.